We've now taken a look at fundamental option, number one, and number two for handling the question
of whether or not a user is authenticated inside of our application.
So just to summarize these two things with fundamental option number one, we said that every individual
service was going to rely upon some central OTT service, either as some outside service or as a central
gateway.
The benefit to this approach reflected here in green is that any time that we made changes to our authentication
state or the access of a user, it would be immediately reflected throughout the rest of our cluster
or throughout the rest of our services.
So if we set a user was banned as soon as the next service came and asked about the status of a user
or whether or not they were actually signed in, we could absolutely say this person is banned, do
not allow them access.
The really big downside to this approach was that if the service ever went down, our entire app would
be broken.
Now fundamental number two really is the exact opposite in nature with the fundamental option.
Number two, we were going to teach each service how to authenticate a user.
So in this case, if the service ever went down, who cares?
Doesn't matter.
Our other services don't even have to understand that the authentication service exists.
That was the big upside to this approach.
However, the downside was that if some user ever got banned, there is going to be a window or a period
of time where we were going to continue to trust that that user was actually signed in.
So we can imagine that someone might come to us and say, Hey, that person was just banned, and we
would respond, Oh, man, I just gave them keys to my bank account or something like that 5 minutes
ago because we are being told too late that this user is now banned.
So the real question here, as it really comes to us, as it applies to us, which option are we going
to go with?
Well, the answer is we are going to go with option number two.
So we're going to go with option number two specifically because I want to promote this idea of making
independent services.
Remember, in all things micro services, there really is a spectrum.
Throughout this course, we've been following this idea of async communication, which really leads
to a huge amount of independence between our different services.
But we absolutely can have a hybrid of sorts.
We can have a setup where we've got a ton of async communication going on, but we can also have some
little instances of sync communication as well.
So regardless of that, I do want to promote this idea of independent services.
So we're going to go with option number two.
Now, you still might say, Stephen, wait a minute.
There's like a fundamental security issue here.
How would we solve that?
Well, don't sweat it.
I got your back.
I got an answer for you.
There is a way that we can solve this entire problem of banning users or updating their authentication
state in some way.
However, it is kind of a little bit longer explanation.
So we're going to take a pause right here.
And in the next video I'm going to give you an optional lecture so you do not have to listen to it if
you do not want to.
But I'm going to tell you about one strategy we could use to get over this really big issue with option
number two.
So quick pause and we'll take a look at that in just a moment.